Multi tenant RavenDB sample (#4275)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/multi-tenant/ravendb/sample.md

reviewed: 2019-02-15
component: Raven
related:
- persistence/ravendb
- nservicebus/outbox
---

include: dtc-warning

This sample demonstrates how to configure RavenDB Persistence to store tenant-specific data in separate databases. The tenant-specific information includes the saga state, the business documents that are accessed using [RavenDB-managed session](/persistence/ravendb/#shared-session), and the outbox records.

This sample uses the [Outbox](/nservicebus/outbox/) to guarantee consistency between the saga state and the business entity.

The sample assumes that the tenant information is passed as a custom message header `tenant_id`.

downloadbutton

## Prerequisites

The databases created by this sample are:

 * `MultiTenantSamples`
 * `MultiTenantSamples-A`
 * `MultiTenantSamples-B`

include: persistence-running

include: persistence-code

#### Outbox cleanup

The built-in Outbox cleanup does not work in a multi-tenant environment because it executes in the context of the shared database while the Outbox documents are stored in the tenant databases. For that reason it needs to be disabled.

snippet: DisableOutboxCleanup

> Alternative solution needs to be configured. The simplest way to ensure that the dispatched Outbox documents are removed is to use the RavenDB [Document expiration](https://ravendb.net/docs/article-page/3.5/Csharp/server/bundles/expiration) bundle. Following code ensures that tenant databases are created with this bundle enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The simplest way to ensure that the dispatched Outbox documents are removed is to use the RavenDB [Document expiration](https://ravendb.net/docs/article-page/3.5/Csharp/server/bundles/expiration) bundle. Following code ensures that tenants’ databases are created with this bundle enabled:
```
